So far, we learned how to navigate, how to use named routes and how to pass parameters, how to have nested
routes. Well sometimes you also have some query parameters, query parameters are the parameters you have
the end of your URL, always at the end separated with a question mark and then something like a equals
100, b equals hello, something like this.
This would be a query parameter and this is mostly optional data you pass with a route, for example a
stored redirection route,
if you redirected the user to log in first and then want to redirect him to his original route
or something like this. To pass such query parameters,
you can either go to your route to where you set up the path directly and add question mark,
a equals 100 for example
or if you use the object syntax like we do here in user detail, you can add another property to this
object which is called query.
This again takes an object as a value
and here you set up key value pairs where you set up your query parameters with because a query parameter
always is a key like a
and then the value like 100
and this is exactly what you set up in this object.
So let's do this, let's say locale should be a string en and then let's also set q equal to 100, to
a number.
So this shall pass these two things as query parameters to the user detail route or to the user edit route,
excuse me,
and if I now choose a user and click edit user, you now see we have a locale equal en and q equals
100,
so these are the query parameters I set up here,
so this extra data. Now to extract this extra data,
let's do it on the edit user template here,
here again I will not set it up in the reactive way with a watcher because I know this will always
be recreated but we could of course do this
but here, we want to output the locale which I can again access on my loaded route
and then here it's not params but instead it's query
and then I know I stored it in a key named locale and for the analytics parameter, let's name
it which was q,
I simply access q here.
Well and with that in place, you already see it reloaded here
and if I change my query parameter here to 105, we see that reflected here too because the page
reloaded.
If you do have links which allow you to reload the page without destroying this component first, you
want to set up a watcher to dynamically update this, as you learned with normal parameters.
And with this, you're also able to send query parameters and to use them and not just normal parameters.